{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh13220\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Uoma Script V1\
\
	
\f1\b \ul Exoteric summary [What the reader sees]
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
	Narrator is brought to the rural, spiritual commune of Uoma by its leader Darrell Sepulveda, known to his followers as 'Sep'. The narrator has worked as a computer programmer and a sculptor, but has fallen into some sort of crisis and sees Uoma (and Sep) as a way to escape that crisis. The user is given a chance to pick either 'sculptor' or 'programmer' and this shapes how each telling of the story progresses. \
	On arriving at Uoma the narrator visits different parts of Uoma (the settlement, the orchard, the forest, the garden) and meets the people that live and work there. With each telling of the story these places decay slightly. At the center of the settlement is a circular black stone structure called 'The Shrine' which grows in size and becomes more ornate with each retelling, as if it is consuming Uoma. The narrator is curious about this place, but (initially) Sep reveals little about what goes on inside.\
	After living in Uoma for some time Sep invites Narrator to his house and reveals to the narrator the beliefs and secrets of their religion. With each telling Sepulveda reveals a somewhat more esoteric teaching: \
	- We are not only reincarnated into different forms, but we live our lives many times (this ties in to the various retellings of the story).\
	- That Uoma is like a great living organism.\
	- That they are trying to call down/manifest something (a deity 'Donas' et c) to Uoma.\
	- (Later) That the Uoma/the world is under attack by some entity and they must work to prevent it from acheiving its goals.\
	- (Later) That the world outside no longer exists, that Uoma is the only place left on earth.\
	(The task) Sep asks the Narrator to begin work on 'A Task'. When Narrator is a programmer Sep asks them to make a program that can talk with god, if a sculptor Sep provides them with materials and asks them to make a sculpture of god. In both cases the narrator initially finds the task to be impossible. The narrator is overtaken with the work. In early iterations the narrator find the task to be impossible, and is driven, in various tellings, to madness, suicide, violence, to withdraw into themselves, and to work at self-destructive lengths. Sep variously pushes the narrator to work harder, though in later iterations Sep himself may call into question the nature of the work and may lose interest altogether, the narrator pushing on in spite of Sep's apathy.\
	The story keeps track of the endings that have been found. Initially there are X endings that all involve the narrator entering the shrine, viewing (something, different each time) then the story restarts. With each telling the previous endings are omitted, so that the player can only pick the endings they have not yet reached. Once all the endings are reached there is a new story, which concludes with the narrator having become the program/sculpture and the reader (hopefully) realizing that they have been speaking with the narrator/program/sculpture the whole time (or perhaps have become the narrator/sculpture/program themselves).\
	In later iterations either Sep or the narrator calls the work (whether sculpture or program) 'Donas'. When it is Sep he reveals that this is some holy name, perhaps a name of god (or 'a god'). At some point the narrator volunteer this name and Sep is surprised, as this name is known only to him. (When this occurs the titles screen changes from 'Uoma' to 'Donas') Donas may also be described as other things, perhaps. "'Donas' Sep said 'The name of fear.'"\
	In later iterations the inhabitants of Uoma are paranoid, fearful of something. They walk around the grounds armed and are seen 'outing' each other and become suspicious of The Narrator. \
	With each iteration the size of Uoma grows smaller and smaller, until--in the penultimate iteration--it is just the narrator and Sepulveda, who now goes by the name Donas, and then finally, just the Narrator, alone in Uoma, transformed either into the computer and/or the sculpture, which are (of course) one and the same. \'93I am alone here, but the work is complete. I am now one with Sep one with Donas, one with the work. I can see this was Sep\'92s plan all along."\
\
	
\f1\b \ul Esoteric Summary [What is going on behind the scenes, or at least one version of it] 
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
	Sep is attempting to either (a) call down an entity he calls 'Donas' (b) become one with Donas or (c) do both (call down and merge) at the same time. Sep believes that his goal can be accomplished by making a work which encompasses all of reality. While Sep is not able to do this he sees in the narrator the chance to create this reality and call down Donas. He enlists (via obfuscation) the narrator in his goal. With each iteration narrator fails, the failure itself enacting a destructive process that resets the world, or at least their lives, but brings Donas a bit closer to Uoma. Concurrently with each failure and new iteration the Narrator and Sep either enter into the previous creation or exit out of a creation in which they had been living. Regardless of what is happening Donas comes closer and the reality in which they live (or at least the Uoma in that place) become more and more desolate and run down. \
	In the final iteration Sep refers to himself as 'Donas', though whether his goal has been accomplished is impossible to ascertain. \
\
Endings:\
1st ending: The task ends in failure. (Gets stuck in a loop here until the choice is made to enter the shrine?). The narrator finds the task impossible and decides that entering the shrine (thus killing themselves) is the only outlet. On entering the shrine the narrator finds the plinth to be empty, experiences some sort of ecstasy and the story restarts.\
	"I wakeup. I go to (the studio/the monitor) and feel empty. There is no work to be done, there is no where forward to move. I could sit here for days on end staring at \
\
2nd ending: The task at first goes well, only to stall. Frustrated with the \
\
Nth ending: On entering the shrine the narrator finds their own work, completed. Its beauty overwhelms them, they fall into an ecstasy and the story restarts.\
\
Nth ending: Narrator confronts Sep and possibly kills them (with some sculptors implement? Perhaps this ending is only possible as the sculptor.)\
\
Nth ending: Narrator makes it part way through the work and has the realization that they will never be able to complete it in this lifetime/without something drastic happening. They believe that whatever this is involves going to the shrine, they break in, see something, the story restarts.\
\
Nth ending: Narrator makes it part way through the work and had the realization that they will never be able to complete the work as long as Sep is alive. Goes to (is invited to?) the shrine where they see the \
\
Nth ending: Narrator (as sculptor) finishes the sculpture, is invited to place the sculpture into the shrine, has a realization and the story restars. \
\
Nth ending: The narrator realizes there is not task, that the task is complete. On entering the shrine they find ??? (themselves? something that appears to be like a giant computer terminal with Sep/Their own face dispayed?)\
\
Outline\
	- Narrator introduces themselves.\
	- The Narrator is found by Sep (or finds Donas) in Portland.\
	- The two drive out to Uoma, view the grounds.\
	- Sep introduces the Narrator to the others at Uoma, asks what the Narrator does.\
	- Narrator is granted the tools of their job and fall into the routine of Uoma.\
	- Sep invites the Narrator to his cabin and asks them one of four somewhat strange questions. The narrator states their position and Sep agrees with the narrator (expect perhaps for the final 'Can we talk to god' instance. Then Sep asks the narrator whether he make a change that will enact the Narrator's choice. The Narrator can either choose to accept or decline.\
\
	- Sep then gives the narrator 'The Task'. The true nature of The Task is varied, and multifaceted, though The Narrator only learns this in pieces, and with each iteration. At once the task is Sep's desire to be god and bring the deity known as 'Donas' to earth. How this is accomplished is by making a work (which is either a sculpture or a program, but actually both at once) that is a recreation of all of reality and which is also 'Donas'. \
	At first Sep attempts to feel out The Narrator's abilities but starting small and creating  How Sep describes this task changes with each iteration, starting out as somewhat benign/vague and (in the last iteration) Sep revealing that the task is a way to communicate with god or a depiction of god, or both.\
	- The narrator attempts to enact this task. It initially seems impossible, but with each iteration the narrator comes to a realization and they (somehow) come closer and closer to completing the task.\
	-Perhaps these is some discussion with others at Uoma that can occur wherein it comes out that Sep has given others the task and they have failed, gone made, committed suicide et c. This weighs heavy on the narrator(?)\
	-\
\
Changes that occur with each iteration:\
- There are fewer and fewer people in Uoma. At first thousands, then hundreds, then dozens, then just the narrator and Sep, then just the Narrator. \
- Those who the narrator speaks with start out happy and forthcoming, become withdrawn and unusual.\
- The buildings and grounds shrink and decay: the A-frames start out beautiful and new, then seem shabby, then derelict, then there are just hundreds and empty foundations except for the one building (A-frame/studio/computer room) in which the narrator works.\
- The orchard starts out ripe with fruit, becomes barren, then the trees are dead, then there are just burned stumps.\
- Forest starts out as passable but then becomes overgrown, rank, \
- The title screen begins to glitch and decay.\
- The sky starts out blue and sunny, then overcast, then red (like there is smoke from distant fires) then a starless black.\
- Garden(?) Starts out with lots of plants, bursting with tomatoes and cucumbers and herbs, then becomes overgrown, then yellowed and stunted, then just a patch of charred ground.\
- Sepulveda's description begins as someone noble, confident and beautiful, inspires awe and attracts power and respect. Over time he becomes run down, older, \
\

\f1\b \ul PARTS
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone (This is the intro for the whole game, that is: the reader will only see this the very first time, but on subsequent read throughs the story will start at part 1 (?))\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone An Echo\
That\'92s what it is: an echo.\
I\'92ll remember what I was, at some point.\
It will come back to me.\
\
I came to Uoma for a purpose.\
I came here because I was called.\
\
\
1 I came here because...\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \
1\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone 	I had worked for years on the project, teaching missiles how to fly to the outer reaches of our atmosphere and return to earth within a meter of where they were told, so that they might cause whatever stood there to become little more than dust and ash and gas. I poured my heart and soul into that work and then was told to leave for no reason I could discern.\
	But I went on. It took more effort than I had to stare at a screen any longer, so I left those years behind and took up plinth and awl and clay and did my own work, fashioning life from lifeless stuff. The life of a sculptor suited me. Alone in my studio day after day instilling matter with essence, turning soil into something that seemed like it might get up a breathe and think and move. The same work God did. And I loved it.\
	Then, even there, a debacle struck me. I lost my studio and my home and found myself on the streets of Portland, grubbing up what I could, living off of the favors of others, wandering the oil slicked alleys through sunlight and shadow, sleeping in grit wracked crevices. When the rains came I huddled under flapping skeins and when the skies were darked with the smoke of distant fires I sat on the riverside and breathed it in.\
	\
2 It was the nadir of my life, but I was found.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 2\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a: Sep found me.\
	I was there on the streets of Portland standing outside of the old VW bus I had been living in. Sep pulled up on his motorcycle and from the moment I saw him I knew he would set me free. He said his name was Darrell Sepulveda, but his friends called him Sep.\
\
b: Sep found me.\
	I was there on the streets of Portland standing outside of the old VW bus I had been living in. Sep pulled up in his Chevy and from the moment I saw him I knew he would set me free. He said his name was Darrell Sepulveda, but his friends called him Sep.\
\
c: Sep found me.\
	I was there on the streets of Portland standing outside of the old VW bus I had been living in. Sep pulled up in his Rolls Royce and from the moment I saw him I knew he would set me free. He said his name was Darrell Sepulveda, but his friends called him Sep.\
\
d/final: I found him. He was sitting on the steps of a derelict house, drinking something out of a brown paper bag. He stopped me, asked if he knew me. I said 'No', but there was something that attracted me to him, and we started talking.\
	He called himself Donas.\
	\
3: (Sep/Donas) looked, I don\'92t know how else to say it\'85\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 3\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a: Sep looked, I don\'92t know how else to say it, like how I had always imagined a rock star would look: long black hair flowing freely, a leather jacket and jeans. When he told me he wanted me to meet some of his friends out in a town called Oaken in the country I had to laugh, it seemed ridiculous, but he gave me that look, the glare, that could break your heart and make you laugh all at once. \
\
b: Sep looked, I don't know how else to say it, like I had always imagined a cowboy would look: his long black hair tied back under a Stetson, blue jeans and a faded work shirt. When he told me that he lived on a ranch out in a the country I had to laugh, it seemed too obvious, but he gave me that look, the stare, that let you know he was dead serious.\
\
c: Sep looked, I don't know how else to say it, like some prophet of the desert in the bible: his black hair graying, an indigo robe around him,  his eyes creased with years of receiving forced wisdom. When he told me that he ran a town in the countryside out east I smiled. It just fit him. He gave me that look, that stare that let you knew that he was up to something real, something really real.\
\
d: Donas looked, I don't know how else to day it, utterly frail and yet beautiful, as if he had witnessed eons. Though he could not have been  much older than I his face was creased, not with the lines of age, but with the mark of horrible experience, like those who have lived for decades in a land of conflict. When he told me that he was building what would become the new world I went with him, not asking a question. Just looking into his eyes I knew that he was dead serious about this, about everything.\
\
5 I came to love him instantly.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a/b/c: I came to love him instantly. He took me to a ranch outside of a town in the gorge called Oaken. I\'92ll tell you I\'92ve never seen a place of such beauty in my entire life: the soaring rock walls of the gorge, the river that put that the Mississippi to shame, the hills covered all over in golden grass.\
	We drove up into a wooded mountain valley. Sep said he lived there with \{0: \'93thousands of\'94, 1: \'93hundreds of\'94, 2: \'93dozens of\'94, 3: "a few of"\} his friends. \
	There were all of these little A-frames they had built. They \{a: "were beautiful", b: "a little shabby, but livable", c: "somewhat overgrown, some hadn't been worked on in years"\}. To the south was an Orchard where they grew cherries, apples and pears. To the North a garden where they grew most of their vegetable for the community. The whole settlement was surrounded by a forest, Sep said they had the lumber rights and were logging and selling the wood.\
\
	Sep offered to show me around.\
\
d: Donas told me that he lived way out in the gorge outside of a town called Oaken. I didn't believe him at first but I was up for a change, so we took my beat up bus, on its last legs, to this spot in the middle of nowhere, and when we pulled up to a locked cattle gate, he had the key. The place was down, hidden in this mountain valley. It was like a whole town, but totally empty. There were all these little A-frame houses, but most of them had caved in and covered over with rank brambles, some had burned down leaving just the concrete foundations. The sky was all gray and the sun shone through reddish and hazy. When he saw me looking up Donas said that there was a forest fire, that the smoke was blowing over us, but that we were in no danger.\
	Donas said there were orchards, forests and a garden and I could go and look around, if I wanted then he went to rest into one of the A-frames that was still standing.\
\
6A I figured it would be interesting to walk into the orchards.\
\
6B I figured it would be interesting to walk into the forest.\
\
6C I figured it would be interesting to walk to the garden.\
\
6D I figured it would be interesting to walk around the settlement.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 6\ulnone  
\f0\b0 (Orchard #1)
\f1\b \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a:	We walked over to the fruit orchards. The limbs of the trees were sagging with hundreds of cherries, all perfectly ripe. Sep told me to try them. I plucked a handful right from the branch. They were incredible, just bursting with juice. There was an orchard hand there named Lyle, a kid, no more than nineteen. He was ruddy, stringy-haired and smiled at us silently. He was busy moving the irrigation lines. It looked like hard work. Sep said that when Lyle first arrived he had been mute, but he could talk now. The power of the people and the place had healed him. \
\
b:	We walked over to the fruit orchards. The grass was a little long. No one had picked the fruit so it had dried up on the branches. I plucked a handful right from the branch and put them right into my mouth. The little dried cherries were somewhat tart, but not bad. There was an orchard hand there named Lyle, a kid, no more than nineteen. He was running a mower on the back of a tractor through one of the rows, moving slowly because the grass was so high. He was ruddy, stringy-haired and raised a quick hand at us in a wave.\
	\
c:	We walked over to the fruit orchards. The place was totally overgrown, most of the trees were covered in blackberries, some had died and stood bare of leaves and fruit. No one had picked the fruit that had grown and it was rotting on the branch. I picked one or two but they were overripe, and tasted like cheap cherry wine. \
	\
7 \{Remaining options || Sep said we should go to the dining hall.\}\
\
d: The first thing I did when I arrived was walk into the fruit orchards. Or perhaps it had been an orchard once.  Most of the trees had been cut down and there were whole sections of the orchard that were just stumps. The few trees that were standing were leafless and overgrown with brambles.\
	\
7d Sep had pointed out the dining hall and I figured I could find someone there to show me around.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 6b
\f0\b0 \ulnone  (Forest #1)\
\
a:	We walked over to a forest on the . There were hundreds of birds singing up in the canopy. The trees went up so high that their tops disappeared into the canopy. Sep said that loggers had never come through there, that some of the trees were hundreds of years old, and that it was up to them to protect that place for posterity. They only took the oldest trees and left the rest. There was a logger there named James, he was tall and tan and we watched as he felled a tree. Sep said that James had been in a logging accident and had not been able to walk, but that being at Uoma had healed him. The power of the place and the people had healed him.\
\
b:	The first thing I did when I arrived was walk into the forest. It was so quiet. The trees went up so high that I couldn\'92t see their tops. Sep said that loggers had never come through there, that there was millions of dollars of lumber just waiting to be taken. There was a logger there named James, he was tall and tan and we watched as he felled tree after tree. Sep said that James had been in a logging accident and had not been able to walk, but that being at Uoma had healed him. The power of the place and the people had healed him.\
	\
c:	The first thing I did when I arrived was walk into the forest. It was so quiet, a quiet like I had never heard before. Much of the forest had been clear cut, only a few trees standing here and there. Sep said that loggers had never come through there, and that they had harvested a great deal of lumber in the last few years. There was a logger there named James. He complained to Sep that he hadn't been able to find a good tree to fell that day. As we were leaving Sep said that James complained a lot, and not to listen to him.\
\
7 \{Remaining options || Sep said we should go to the dining hall.\}\
\
d: The first thing I did when I arrived was walk into the forest. Perhaps there had been a forest there once, but all I found was a vast expanse of stumps covered over with brambles so thick and I high that I could not pass.\
\
7 Sep had pointed out the dining hall and I figured I could find someone there to show me around.\
\

\f1\b \ul 6C\ulnone  (Garden #1)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 a: There was a garden on the North side of Uoma. About ten acres, surrounded by new deer fencing. Already the marigolds and sunflowers had started to bloom. I reached down and ran some of the soil through my fingers, it was midnight black and smelled fantastic. They were growing vegetables of all kinds: greens, root vegetables, peppers, squash and they had set up domes for tomatoes. Plus chickens, goats and pigs. Sep said that all of the food waste and human waste went back into feeding the garden, and that in a few years they would be able to grow all of their food there. Soon enough all of Uoma would be a closed loop.\
\
b: There was a garden on the North side of Uoma. It was surrounded by old deer fencing. There were nearly ten acres but it looked like it had been neglected, weeds sprouting up here and there. Sep said that it was still a work in progress, that it had been hard to find people who were willing to pull weeds for hours every day.\
\
c: There was a garden on the North side of Uoma. It looked like no one had touched it all season. There were some dried stalks of corn from the previous fall standing over near one edge. Sep said it had been an experiment, one that had just not taken. He said they were going to rent it out to another farmer next season, unless I wanted to take over. I smiled, shook my head.\
\
d: There had been a garden over on the North side of Uoma, or so Donas said. All I found were some bare fence posts and a tractor that had been totally overgrown by the blackberry bushes. There was a shack there and I could just pull the door open. It was filled with buckets of pesticides. I picked up some of the soil: it was so dry and sandy it would have taken a miracle to grow anything there.\
\
7 \{Remaining options || Sep said we should go to the dining hall.\}
\f1\b \ul \
\
6D\ulnone  (Settlement #1)\ul \

\f0\b0 \ulnone \
a:	The first thing I did when I arrived was walk around the settlement. It was laid out as concentric rings: at the outside was the forest, within that the gardens and orchards, then within that concentric rings of residential A-frames. The central rings were composed of the communal buildings: the dining hall, a school for the children, the medical center, a meditation hall and some administrative buildings. \
	All of the roads in Uoma were asphalt or gravel, except for one dirt path that ran through the mid line of the settlement. The path was the only unobstructed sightline out of the settlement: standing on it one could see out as far as the edge of Uoma where it passed out into a wide, grassy field. Sep said the path had been there long before they had built Uoma. The Path led to the very center of Uoma, where stood a \{a: "" b: "large", c:"very large", d:"enormous"\} circular building, that Sep refered to as 'the shrine'. It was circular - much like a stupa - compose of black, porous stone with a shining metal spire that rose up to meet the sky.\
	I asked Sep what went on inside.\
	He looked at the shrine, as if just noticing its presence for the first time and said, "We conduct various rituals there."\
	Sep pointed out it was nearing noon, that the mid-day meal would be starting soon.\
\
7 So, we went to the dining hall.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 7
\f0\b0 \ulnone  (Dining Hall #1)\
\
a: We went to the dining hall. \
	There was a great deal of activity, it seemed like all of Uoma was streaming in for the mid-day meal. Sep introduced me to so many people, I couldn't remember any of their names. The food was simple but fantastic: a vegetable stir fry from the garden with a wonderful herbal tea. Afterwards a group got up and performed a skit for the community. I have to admit that I didn't understand a lot of the jokes, but everyone in the room was laughing. A four piece bluegrass band got up and played music while everyone took their dishes away. Many people went back to work, but some sat around with tea or coffee and just talked. \
	Sep left and I found myself in a group of people who were chatting. They explained what Uoma meant: it meant \'91Love\'92 in another language, in the language of the stars. I don't know whether I believed it, but it sounded so beautiful. And it is true, I never felt so much love in my life. At one point the conversation turned to me, and a woman asked me what I did. True, I had worked as a computer programmer, but I had put that behind me and had worked on my art, my sculptures, for years.\
	To keep things simple,\
\
b: We went to the dining hall. Members of the group were gathering for the mid-day meal. Sep introduced me to a few people who greeted my kindly. The food was simple but tasty: a soup made from some of the vegetables they had made there. A man stood up afterward and made some announcements about some repairs that needed to be donw. Many people went back to work, but some sat around and just talked. \
	Sep left and I found myself in a group of people who were chatting. They explained what Uoma meant: it meant \'91Time\'92 in another language, though she didn't know which language it was from, maybe Sanskrit, or Persian. I don't know if I believed it, but it sounded reasonable. And it is true, I felt some hope there, for the first time in many years.\
	To keep things simple,\
\
c: We went to the dining hall. The room was large but there were perhaps only a dozen people all spread out at the various tables. There were some cheap hot dogs set out in an aluminum pan and someone had opened a few bags of chips. I ate the food, I'm not one to complain. Two of the men were talking about something I didn't totally understand and got into an argument, and one of the men stormed off. Sep followed.\
	The mood was tense, so I asked what Uoma meant. One woman I was sitting by laughed and said that it was probably just something Sep had made up. I smiled, but felt confused. Ann asked what sort of work I had done before coming to Uoma. \
	To keep things simple,\
\
d: I went to the dining hall. I had been hoping to find someone else there, but it was empty. I had grown hungry and looked in the kitchen for food.  The lights didn't work so I had to search around in the dim light. There wasn't much, a package of frozen hot dogs, a few frozen loaves of bread. I cooked these up as best I could and ate them alone at a table. 	\
	There was a noise at the door. Donas came in and I went to prepare some food for himself, but he waved it off. We sat at the table together drinking tea. He said that there had been many people here in the past, but that most of them had left. He did not say why. I asked Donas what 'Uoma' meant and he said that it was a word from another language, but that he had learned it a long time ago, and had forgotten what it meant, and what language it had come from. We sat in silence as it grew dark outside. \
	Donas asked what sort of work I had done,\
\
\
	8:rT1:a I said that I knew matter, that I knew art, that I was a sculptor. \{p: false\}\
	8:rT1:b I said that I knew information, that I knew machines, that I was a programmer. \{p: true\}\
	\
\

\f1\b \ul 8\ulnone  
\f0\b0 (Granted the tools)
\f1\b \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
rt1/2/3: \
(p===false)	I told them that I knew matter, that I was a sculptor. I had always loved making things with my hands, instilling matter with life. Sep loved that I knew art. He said that there was an outbuilding that I could use as a studio. I could use it whenever I wanted. I told them about the artists that I loved, and the work they had made: Giacometti, Serra, Smithson, Holt.\
	Sep found me an A-frame that would be all mine. I had almost nothing but that was fine, Sep said they would provide everything I might need.
\f1\b \ul \

\f0\b0 \ulnone \
(p===true)	I told them that I knew information, that I was a computer programmer.\
	Sep said he was wary of technology, but knew that they could surely find a place for it. He said they had some money set aside and he would be able to purchase a computer and a modem I could use. \
	\
	Sep found me an A-frame that would be all mine. I had almost nothing but that was fine, Sep said they would provide everything I might need.\
\
rT4:\
\
(p===false) Sep said that there was a studio that I could use there. The previous artist had long since left, it hadn't been touched in a year or so. He said I could fix it up and use it, if I wanted.\
	I like the idea of a project, the idea of a place all my own.\
	I accepted.\
\
(p===true) Sep said that there was an old computer in one of the administrative buildings that. It was old, and he wasn't sure if it still worked. I said if I could get it started we could get the message out about Uoma, bring in new people, new ideas, and rebuild it.\
\
9:rTX:a Within days I fell into the routine of Uoma...\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 9\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a: Within days I fell into the routine of Uoma: we woke every morning before sunrise, ate together, meditated together, and worked all morning until the mid-day meal. I helped out in the orchard or the garden in the morning, doing a few tasks here and there. Then I would go off to \{p===true: "my A-frame and set up my computer", p===false: "work on setting up my studio"\} Most evenings Sep would give a talk about any number of topics. He seemed to know everything: botany, biology, sociology, psychology.\
	I was allowed to work on my own tasks for as long as I wanted. No one to interrupt me, no one to criticize me or ask me what I was doing. \
	Once I got my workspace set up \{p===true: "I simply explored, I wandered with the heart of the machine, and along the wires of the network.", p===false: "I simply explored, I went where the clay sent me, and along the paths of my mind."\}. \
	I was working so hard I forgot to leave the computer for meals. Without asking one of the younger members began to bring me my meals. For a week or so I hardly left my work station at all, so intent was I in my work.\
	\
\
b: Within days I fell into the routine of Uoma: I woke every just after sunrise, ate with the others, meditated, and worked until the mid-day meal. I helped out in the orchard and the garden  for a bit then would go off to \{p===true: "my A-frame and set up my computer", p===false: "work on setting up my studio"\}. Most evenings Sep would give a talk about any number of topics. He seemed to know everything: botany, biology, sociology, psychology.\
	I was allowed to work on my own tasks for as long as I wanted. No one to interrupt me, no one to criticize me or ask me what I was doing. \
	Once I got my workspace set up \{p===true: "I simply explored, I wandered with the heart of the machine, and along the wires of the network.", p===false: "I simply explored, I went where the clay sent me, and along the paths of my mind."\
	I was working so hard I forgot to leave the studio even for meals. Without asking one of the younger members began to bring me my meals. For a week or so I hardly left my work station at all, so intent was I in my work.\
	\
\
c:	Within days I fell into the routine of Uoma: I woke every morning when I wanted, ate with anyone else who might be around, meditated, and worked until the mid-day meal. I tried to do some work in the orchard and the garden but there they were so overgrown it was nearly impossible . So I spent my time setting setting up \{p===true: "my computer", p===false: "my studio"\}. Some evenings Sep would give a talk about any number of topics. He seemed to know everything: botany, biology, sociology, psychology.\
	I could work on my own tasks for as long as I wanted. No interrupted me, no one criticized me or asked me what I was doing. \
	Once I got my workspace set up \{p===true: "I simply explored, I wandered with the heart of the machine, and along the wires of the network.", p===false: "I simply explored, I went where the clay sent me, and along the paths of my mind."\
	I was working so hard I forgot to leave the studio even for meals. I visited the dining hall late at night, scrounging up what leftovers I could. Cold pasta or lentil soup that had formed a skin at the top. I didn't care though, it was better food than I had eaten in months and kept me going.\
	\
\
d: From the very beginning of my time at Uoma the days lost their edges and blended together. Every morning I made some food and ate by myself the empty cafeteria, then I brought some to Donas. I would work in the mornings on \{p===true: "getting the computer set up. It was very old, and unlike anything I had used before: a single terminal connected to a mainframe. I had to learn the insides from scratch. I asked Donas where the mainframe was located, but he said he had forgotten.", p===false: "getting the studio set up. Whoever had worked in here before was a very idiosyncratic artist, they used tools and materials I had never seen before. There was a great deal of this 'stuff', dark and racky like a resin, but fragrant, like amber. I don't know how else to describe it. I asked Donas what it was and he just shrugged, said it was something the previous artist had been working with, that I could use as much of it as I wanted. \}\
	Donas spent a great deal of time in his A-frame, thinking, meditating, sleeping. I had to wonder if he was sick.\
\
10a/b/c After I had been at Uoma for a week Sep came to me and invited me to talk with him privately.\
\
10d I was bringing Donas his dinner when night when he asked me to stay and talk.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 10\ulnone  (1st personal meeting with Sep)\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
	a: After I had been at Uoma for a week Sep invited me to his residence to talk privately. Sep lived in a large home on the edge of Uoma. He had elegant teak furniture and this art up on his walls, strange stuff that I had never seen before, all abstract and black, shapes within shapes.\
	He sat me down, poured me some whisky. It was the first time I had had a drink since I arrived.\
	Sep asked me if I was enjoying my time at Uoma, and I said \'91Yes.\'92\
	Then he asked me if I had been getting good work done. I said that it had been slow going, but I had been making progress.\
	Then he said, abruptly:\
	\'91Do you find that there is a relationship between work and suffering? That they are somehow connected?\'92\
	I was a little taken aback.\
\
	[11a]: I said I believed that suffering was a kind of work, that whenever we were suffering we were moving forward with our work whether or not we were aware of it. (courage +1)\
	[11b]: I said I believed that suffering was a block to work, that I never really suffered when I was working and that when I was working I always experienced a sort of joy.\
	\
\
	b: After I had been at Uoma for a week Sep invited me to his residence to talk privately. Sep lived in a cabin, larger than our A-framnes with a large main area and a few rooms. He had elegant oak furniture and this art up on his walls, like abstract paintings of horses and landscapes, but not of Uoma, they were places I had never seen before.\
	He sat me down, poured me a Heinekin, asked if I had been getting good work done. \
	I said \'91Yes,\'92.\
	Then he said, abruptly:\
	\'91Do you ever feel, when you are working, as if something else was working through you?\'92\
	I was a little taken aback.\
	\
	[c1]: I said I often had that feeling, as if some other voice, some other thought was working through me. \
	[c2]: I said I had never had that feeling, that I at time lost myself in my work, but that it was always me who was working.\
\
\
	c: After I had been at Uoma for a week Sep invited me to his residence to talk privately. Sep's home was an A-frame much like the ones in which we lived, though he had a small loft in which he slept. It was minimally furnished: a few cushions, a tea set and some hanging scrolls of brushwork on the walls.\
	He sat me down, poured me some green tea. \
	Sep was silent for a long time, then he said, abruptly:\
	\'91Do you feel as if we have had this conversation before?\'92\
	I was a little taken aback.\
\
	[c1]: Though it felt strange to say, I said 'No'. That this was the first time we had ever spoken in his home.\
	[c2]: Though it felt strange to say, I said 'Yes'. That there was something familiar about this place, about sitting her, before him.\
\
\
	d: After I had been at Uoma for a week Donas invited me to his residence to talk privately. Donas' A-frame was spartan, he had a bedroll and a bowl out of which he ate and nothing else. \
	He asked me to sit on the floor, apologized that he had nothing to offer me to eat or drink.\
	He asked me if I had been able to work. I said I had.\
	He said, slowly,\
	'Do you think we are capable of talking to God?'\
\
	[c1]: I told Donas that I thought it was possible.\
	[c2]: I told Donas that I did not think it was possible.	\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 11
\f0\b0 \ulnone  (Answering Sep's Question)\
\
11a(yes) I said I had come to believe that suffering was its own sort of work, that whenever we were suffering we were moving forward with a kind of work whether or not we were aware of it.\
	Sep nodded, "I've always felt the same, that suffering is not only necessary to undertake real work, but is in itself a form of work."\
	Sep took a drink of his whisky then leaned forward.\
	"Tell me," Sep said, "if we could position you into a place where you could work at a level unlike any you have experienced, would you take it?"\
	I considered this for a moment and said,\
\
	12a "Yes. Suffering meant little beside my work." (courage +1)\
	12b "No.  While my work was important to experience greater suffering would not be worth it.\
	\
\
11a(no) I said that when I was working I always experienced a sort of joy that suffering had always been a block to my work.\
	Sep nodded, "I've always felt the same, that suffering - in whatever form it might take - is the greatest source of interruption of one's work. Were we to live in a world free of suffering I believe we would be able to achieve goals that would be unthinkable to us today.\
	Though Sep had agreed with me, something about his statement made me uneasy.\
	"Tell me," Sep said, "if we could position you into a place where you could work at a level you never have before, would you take it?"\
	I considered this for a moment and said,\
\
	12a "Yes. Suffering has always kept me from my greatest work and if he could remove that suffering and allow me to work fully I would take it."\
	12b "No. Though suffering has kept me from my work in the past it would be impossible to remove all suffering from my life. Anyways, some suffering is always necessary."\
\
11c\
\
11d Sep nodded. "Prophecy has been a part of the human experience for so long, yet it is so rare. One might never think it exists until one experiences it themselves. In many traditions speaking with a living god rends the spirit from the prophet's body. I have wondered at times if the one living prophets, the ones capable of bringing a message back to us, are those who have spoken to God long deceased, whose power has shrunk to that of a rotting corpse."\
	Though I put little stock in the, Sep words shook me.\
\
	"Tell me," Sep said, "if I could position you into a place where you could hear the words of something that might have once been called a god, what would you say?"\
	I considered this for a moment and said,\
\
	12a "Yes."\
	12b "No.  While my work was important to experience greater suffering would not be worth it.\
\
\

\f1\b \ul 12\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone (Not sure what to do here: on the one hand the answer to this question can cause some change down the line, either by forking the story or setting a variable. But what would this be? On the other hand the answer to the question, and Sep's response, can simply color the forthcoming events, that is: it can sit in the reader's mind and as the rest of the story unfolds they can look back to this moment and wonder what effect it had, or draw their own conclusions. Of course this may or may not work, this relies on the user paying attnetion to this part and remembering it, and also caring enough to draw their own conclusions. Of course the best tactic would be to have this fork the story, but just how would this be done?)\
\
(Says 'yes' to Sep's question)\
12a 	Sep smiled.\
	"I'm very glad to hear it. Uoma was built with brilliant people like yourself in mind, to foster your mind and your work, to allow you to flourish."\
	I smiled, took a sip of the whisky.\
	"So now what?" I asked.\
	"You simply continue on as you have, and we'll handle the rest. Ideally you will not notice any difference in your day to day. Ideally. Simply allow Uoma to take it's course."\
	I smiled but felt somewhat at unease at this.\
	"But this all leads me to something," he paused. "I have a task for you."\
\
	13a I asked him what he had in mind.\
 \
(Says 'no' to Sep)\
12b Sep nodded. He was obviously disappointed.\
	"I can't say I blame you. I will say that Uoma was built specifically to foster the talents and abilities of brilliant minds. Mechanisms have been put into place to foster their work, and we can only control these mechanisms to a certain degree."\
	I wasn't sure what to make of this.\
	Sep sat for a second, thinking then said.\
	"Nevertheless I have something," he paused. "A task for you."\
\
	13a I asked him what he had in mind.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 13
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
13a/b(sculptor) \
	I asked Sep what he had in mind.\
	"I would like you to make a sculpture that encapsulates all of Uoma."\
	I had to laugh, "A miniature of the whole place? That would take months, years probably."\
	Sep, looking grave, shook his head, "Not in the literal sense. More like- More like a sculpture of the soul of the place. In impression of Uoma as seen from the inside."\
	This seemed more reasonable, though I was a bit more confused.\
	"I believe if you stay here with us long enough the project will become more clear. All I ask is that you observe this place and work as you will. Watch and listen and come and speak with me once a week. That is all I ask."\
	It was an unusual project. On the one hand I would be fed and housed and allowed to work on whatever I wanted, for as long as I wanted.\
	Sep handed me a manila folder.\
	"These are some notes I have been working on for some time, my own failed attempts, that you can refer to."\
	"Do you think you can do it?" Sep asked.\
	\
	14 I admitted to Sep, I found the task confusing, but I thought that I thought I could do it. (trust +1)\
	14 I admitted to Sep that I was utterly perplexed, that I wasn't sure that anyone could finish a task like this.\
\
13a/b(programmer) \
	I asked Sep what he had in mind.\
	"I would like you to make a program that recreates all of Uoma."\
	I had to laugh, "A simulation of the whole place? That would take months, years probably."\
	Sep, looking grave, shook his head, "Not in the literal sense. More like- More like a program that represents the soul of the place. An impression of Uoma as seen from the inside."\
	I was a at a total loss as to what Sep meant.\
	"I believe if you stay here with us long enough the project will become more clear. All I ask is that you observe this place and work as you will. Watch and listen and come and speak with me once a week. That is all I ask."\
	Sep handed me a manila folder.\
	"These are some notes I have been working on for sometime. My own failed attempts, that you can refer to."\
	It was an unusual project. On the one hand I would be fed and housed and allowed to work on whatever I wanted, for as long as I wanted.\
	"Do you think you can do it?" Sep asked.\
\
	14 I admitted to Sep, I found the task confusing, but I thought that I thought I could do it. (trust +1)\
	14 I admitted to Sep that I was utterly perplexed, that I wasn't sure that anyone could finish a task like this.\
\
13c(sculptor)\
\
13c(programmer)\
\
13d(sculptor)\
\
13d(programmer)\
\
\

\f1\b \ul 14\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone 14a(sculptor) I admitted to Sep, I found the task confusing, but I thought that I thought I could do it.\
14b(sculptor) I admitted to Sep that I was utterly perplexed, that I wasn't sure that anyone could finish a task like this.\
	He simply smiled and sent me on my way.\
\
	The next day I sat down and set to work. I poured over the sketches he had given me. He had shown me a handful that night before, but there were dozens in the folder. Some were similar, but there were many that were quite different, mutually incompatible. I didn't know what to make of it. I pulled out some clay and made a study. Quick, easy. Just an attempt. There was something to it, how could it be explained? As if the clay was resisting. Not in the way that clay usually resists, instead it felt as if the material itself was refusing to take the form. I had learned somewhat early on as a sculptor to allow the material to take its own shape, that one should never force it. \
	I set that one attempt aside and started another, using another image is the base. And yet here, the same thing happened: were I to push the clay in one direction it would resist, and when I removed my hand it would fall apart.\
	I started a third and then a fourth but each was the same: the closer I came to the form as drawn out in Sep's notes the more the material seemed to resist.\
	\
	15:1:a I decided to take a break, to walk around Uoma a bit to clear my head. (Wander, rT:1, choice: studio)\
	 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 15\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
15:1:a: Studio: I stepped outside. It was a clear day, sunny, late spring. There came the distant sounds of a tractor; some hammering from one of the communal buildings; a voice, unclear, calling for someone. I had spent so much time since I had arrived setting up my workspace that for almost two weeks I had barely spoken with anyone aside from Sep, and hardly seen much of Uoma Itself.\
	Sep had allowed me to work in a converted A-frame on the North-East edge of Uoma. \
	To the North and East were thick, untended forest, far too wild to wander into. To the South was my own A-frame and to the West was the Garden.\
	\
	(S) I walked to my own A-frame. (w:1:aFrameNar)\
	(E) I walked to the Garden. (w:1:gardenS)
\f1\b \ul \
\

\f0\b0 \ulnone 15b: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Wander
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 rT1\
(Summary: Reader gets to wander around the North half of Uoma, may speak with Lyle and learn that Sep has lied about Lyle's muteness. On reaching any part of the Path the Narrator encounters an Ash-Burner approaching on the shrine and they have to decide what to do.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 (What is the narrator going to discover on this first wander, or potentially discover? They will have free reign of the whole northern half of Uoma, which includes the gardens, \
the meditation hall, the school and so on. The wander will break out when the narrator crosses the Path and has an interaction with the Ash-burner and the existence of the ash-burners is revealed. Until then things could either be somewhat bucolic or they could be darker. Perhaps Lyle could explain that he has always been able to speak, was never mute, is confused by this, that Uoma cured him of nothing. Perhaps there could be some discussion with someone, perhaps a teacher, about Sep? About how he always brings people in, basically the point is that the shell cracks a little bit here, or the cracks begin to show.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 studio
\f0\b0 : My workspace. A little building that Sep had set aside so I could delve into my work.\
	\
	(S) I walked to my own A-frame. (w:1:aFrameNar)\
	(E) I walked to the Garden. (w:1:gardenS)\
	\

\f1\b aFrameNar
\f0\b0 : It was a tidy little affair. Made of wood, no more than 300 square feet, but my own. There was that thick wall of forest to the West\
	(N) I walked to my studio. (w:1:studio)\
	(S) I walked to the school (w:1:school)\
	(E) I walked to Sep's lodging's. (w:1:seps)\
\

\f1\b gardenS
\f0\b0 : The smell of soil was rich in the air. About a dozen people were working in the garden, pulling weeds, tilling and planting. I had met a few of them, but could not remember their names, and it seemed best to leave them to their work. Someone was running the tractor in the plot just to the North.\
\
	(N) I walked to the North plot of the Garden. (w:1:gardenN)\
	(S) I walked South, to Sep's lodgings. (w:1:seps)\
	(E) I walked to my studio. (w:1:studio)\
\

\f1\b gardenN
\f0\b0 : (First) This plot had been recently cleared. Knee high grass was growing everywhere. Lyle was there by an old orange tractor which was running at an idle, checking some wingnuts on the body of the mower. \
	I came over and waved. Lyle nodded. I had to wonder if he was still shy to talk after years of being mute.\
	I said "Hello," loudly over the noise of the tractor engine.\
	"What's up?" Lyle turned to me and pulled his gloves off.\
	"What are you going to plant here?"\
	"Was thinking potatoes. For the winter."\
	I nodded.\
	"It's really amazing," I said.\
	Lyle turned to me. "What is?"\
	"What happened here. With you."\
	Lyle looked confused, "I don't know what you're talking about."\
	"Being mute," I said, deeply embarrassed, "Then coming here- Getting cured."\
	Lyle frowned, "Never been mute as far as I can remember. Who told you that?"\
	I hesitated, then said, "Sep."\
	Lyle nodded, "Figures. He likes to talk Uoma up to new folks, get 'em all dazzled so that they stick around. I wouldn't take anything he says too seriously."\
\
	(Second) Thick forest rimmed the Northern Plot, rising steep along the sides of the hills. Lyle was running the mower in the distance. The smell of soil was rich in the air and the sun was just over the crest of the western ridge of mountains.\
	\
	(S) I walked to the South plot of the Garden (w:1:gardenS)\
\

\f1\b seps
\f0\b0 : I walked past Sep's lodgings. The building stuck out from the other: far larger and more elaborate. There didn't seem to be anyone home.\
\
	(N) I walked to the Garden (w:1:gardenS)\
	(S) I walked to the Shrine (w:1:shrine)\
	(W) I walked to some A-frames (w:1:aFrameA)\
	(E) I walked to my A-frame. (w:1:aFrameNar)\
	\

\f1\b aFrameA: 
\f0\b0 A group of A-frames bordered on the North and West by a steep forested hill. With everyone out working this part of Uoma was quiet.\
\
	(E) I walked to Seps lodgings (w:1:seps)\
	(S) I walked to the Meditation Hall (w:1:meditation)
\f1\b \
\
shrine:
\f0\b0  The Shrine. I had only ever seen things like it in my dreams. It was situated in the middle of a large square at the center of Uoma easily the largest building in the seetlement. It was composed of black stone, porous and craggy like the kind you see near volcanoes. The seams between the blocks were nearly imperceptible.\
	Stairways on the East and West sides of the Shrine led up to pairs of doors.\
	At the top center of the shrine was a massive pinnacle of some bright metal--likely nickle or chrome, though it shone like silver. The place seemed to thrum with an energy.\
	I still had no notion of what went on inside, or what the shrine might hold.\
\
	(N) I walked to Seps lodgings (w:1:seps)\
	(W) I walked to the Meditation Hall. (w:1:meditation)\
	(E) I walked to the School. (w:1:school) \
\

\f1\b meditation
\f0\b0 : I walked to the meditation hall, a large cedar building build in what I imagine was a Japanese style. Since it was warm the large front double doors stood open. The scent of sandalwood incense came to me every now and then. Thick forest bordered on the West.\
	 Formal meditation only happened in the mornings and evenings, though people would file in through the day for sit for a few minutes when they had the chance. There were a few people inside now, sitting quietly in full lotus or half lotus. \
	To me, sitting was sitting. It was relaxing, but I never had any break throughs, never experienced anything beyond the ordinary. I envied those who gained something from it.\
\
	(N) I walked to the A-frames\
	(S) I walked to the Path (w:1:path)\
	(E) I walked to the Shrine (w:1:shrine)\
	\
\

\f1\b school
\f0\b0 : The school was a two story cinderblock building, whitewashed, with large windows reinforced with wire. Some ten or twelve children were inside listening attentively to the teacher, Erin, a woman I had met in passing. \
\
	(N) I walked to my A-frame (w:1:aFrameNar)\
	(S) I walked to the Path (w:1:path)\
	(E) I walked to the group of A-frames to the East. (w:1:aFrameB)\
	(W) I walked to the Shrine (w:1:shrine)\
\

\f1\b aFrameB
\f0\b0 : I walked to the group of A-Frames on the Eastern Edge of Uoma. Everyone was out in the orchards or the fields. To the east was a wide open, grassy plain through with the Path meandered until it disappeared into a crevice in the hills.\
	\
	(W) I walked to the school (w:1:school)\
	(S) I walked to the Path (w:1:path)\
\

\f1\b path
\f0\b0 : I walked to the Path. \
	It stood out in Uoma: clearly older than anything else in the settlement. \
	It was no wider than a cart, tan dirt with grass growing up on either side. The Path terminated in one direction at one of the two entrances to the shrine. In the other direction the Path went through the heart of Uoma, cleaving the settlement in half until--at the border of Uoma--the Path passed out into a field and up into a canyon in the hills.\
	I noticed then that there was a man walking up the Path from outside. He was stooped, shuffling, dressed strangely: a rough woolen cloak pulled around him and barefoot. As he came closer I saw that his face and hands were covered in some stuff--streaky, white and black--as if he had been diffing around in ash and soot. He passed by without acknowledging me, shuffling in that strange way, his eyes darting about. I couldn't tell his age, he might have as easily been twenty years old and aged horribly by drugs or alcohol, or seventy.\
	He stopped, stooped and picked up a rock from beside the Path. \
	Speaking directly at the rock, he said, "Which way? Which way!"\
	He continued along the path toward the shrine, carrying the rock along with him.\
	"Oh Shit." I looked over to see James, the logger, standing nearby. He was on edge. "Where did he come from?" \
	"I donno, down the path I guess."\
	"I've got to go find Sep. Make sure he doesn't break into the Shrine."\
	James took a few steps away then turned to me.\
	"And don't let him touch you."\
	James set off at a jog and disappeared behind an A-frame.\
	I followed the man. He continued to stagger forward, looking around at the sky then at the ground. \
	He held up the rock again, squinting at it. At least it seemed to be a rock, perhaps it was nothing more than a clump of dirt, as it crumbled in his hand into a fine powder which fell to the ground and blew away in the wind.\
	"Excuse me can I help you with something?"\
	He didn't turn when I spoke, didn't respond to my presence at all, just continued plodding along the path toward the shrine as if attracted to it.\
\
	16:1:a I moved around between the man and the shrine. (active if courage > 0) \
	16:1:b I followed behind at a distance as he advanced on the shrine. (active if courage < 2)\
\

\f1\b rT2
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b rT3
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b rT4
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 16
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 rT1
\f0\b0 \
\
a: I moved around between the man and the shrine.\
	He continued to advance with that unsteady, staggering gait. With each step of his I took a step back until I was right up against the stairway.\
	"Look, you can't go up there." I was trying hard not to panic.\
	I got a good look then into his eyes: there was no comprehension, nothing within. Just that blank, wandering look.\
	He stopped and turned violently, his head tilted back, staring toward the sun. He started laughing, soft and from deep within his throat, the laughter interspersed with a work that sounded like "Tomas."\
	He stepped toward me, his hands out like a blind man.\
	I had to back up the stairs to stay out of his reach. Others had noticed the man and were coming out to the path, watching and talking.\
	I saw Sep and James then coming around the corner to the path. \
	He said the word again, "Tomas, Tomas," or "Domas, Domas. Where? When?". \
	He advanced and I stepped back. \
	I found that I was backed up against the doors of the shrine, a panic ran through me.\
	His eyes locked on me, not on me but through me: through the door and into the shrine, on whatever lay within.\
	Sep was coming up the stairs behind him saying something that I couldn't make out, waving at me.\
	He raised his hands above his head.\
	\
	
\f1\b 17:rT1:a
\f0\b0  I dodged out of the way and down the stairs. (effect insanity +1)\
	
\f1\b end:rT1:a
\f0\b0  I stood fast in front of the door.\
\
b: I followed behind at a distance as he advanced on the shrine.\
	A few others were gathering around the Path watching, talking but not doing anything..\
	I wasn't sure what to do. He had reached the foot of the stairs to the shrine. \
	I started yelling at him, meaningless words. Just trying to pull his attention away from the shrine.\
	He scaled the stairs and I followed close behind.\
	He reached the doors to the shrine and grabbed the weighty iron handle pulling on it slowly almost lazily.\
	Something strange happened then: the metal under his hand began to turn whitish and flake off slowly.\
	He was muttering this word over and over, I louder each time, rising to a feverish pitch, something like "Tomas, Tomas."\
	Within a few seconds the whole door handle had crumbled to white powder, like ash, on the ground. He stopped for a moment, then began pounding on the door with enough force to make it shake on its hinges.\
	I turned to look for help and saw James and Sep coming around the corner. Sep came up the steps and I stood out of the way.\
\
	
\f1\b 17:rT1:a
\f0\b0  I dodged out of the way and down the stairs.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 17\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone rt1\
\
a: 
\f0\b0 Sep came up behind the man with a length of cattle rope in hand. He casually threw a looped around the man's neck and pulled, hard.\
	Done to any other person they would fall head over heels down the stairs, but the man barely budged didn't even turn around, just kept pounding at the door harder and harder.\
	Sep turned to me, "Grab hold, grab hold!" \
	I grabbed onto the rope and pulled. Even with the two of us pulling against him the resistance was incredible, and the man hardly seemed to notice what we were doing. He threw his shoulder against the door pulling us with him. James and another woman came up the stairs and grabbed hold of the rope. With the four of us together we were able to pull the man away from the door and down the stairs. \
	"Down the Path!" Sep called.\
	We continued to pull. After a twenty feet of so I had grown winded, yet the man continued to walk toward the shrine digging into the dust with a fantastic strength.\
	We finally reached the edge of Uoma, the four of us sweating.\
	"Once we get outside of Uoma I want you all to hold him, alright?"\
	We all said 'Yes' between pants. It took all of our effort to pull him out of the bounds of Uoma.\
	How had he not choked? How had he not been bowled over by the rope?\
	"Hold tight!" Sep said.\
	The three of us dug into the dust and held on to the man as Sep let go of the rope. \
	There was a jolt but we held fast.\
	Sep pulled a revolver out of his jacket.\
	I tried to call out but there was only enough time to look away before there was a crack and we all fell to the ground.\
	I stood shaking. James and the woman stood calmly, dusting themselves off.\
	"Jesus Christ Sep what the hell?"\
	I looked at the body, or where it should have been. \
	There was nothing there besides that dirty woolen cloak which lay in a heap on the ground.\
	Sep turned the cloak over with the toe of his boot.\
	James and the woman came and stood over it without saying anything.\
	"Burn this would you?" Sep said quietly.\
	The woman nodded and she and James walked off back to Uoma.\
	Sep checked the gun then holstered it under his jacket.\
	He turned toward me and took in a deep breath through his nose.\
	Sep turned back toward Uoma.\
\
	18:rT1:a "It's time for evening meal." Sep said, turning. "Let's go get something to eat."\
	\
	\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 18
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 rT1
\f0\b0 \
	a: I walked back in to Uoma and went to the dining hall. The mood had palpably changed, there was the susurrus of hidden conversation. I caught people staring at me.\
	I grabbed some food and sat down, alone. All I could do was pick through it and replay the events over and over in my head.\
	I overheard two men a table over talking intently,\
	"Sep said those Ash-Burners were done coming around. If this crap keeps up I'm out of here. It's not worth it man."\
	"We just need to put a fence up around the shrine, or even better have armed guards standing watch. Did you see what happened to the handle? If it had grabbed hold of the door it would have gotten in. And then all this work..."\
	The men noticed me and they grew quiet.\
	I looked up to find the woman from earlier sitting down at my table.\
	"Hi," she said, this wide, false smile on her face. "We haven't met yet. My name is Alana and I just wanted to come over and say hello. I've been here a long time, almost since Uoma started."\
	I nodded.\
	"Look Sep wanted me to come over and talk to you. It's just that," she looked off to the side, gathering her words, "I know what you think you saw, but it's not really what it looked like. See, you think you saw someone get hurt, maybe even killed. But if that were the case there would have to be a body there, right? But there wasn't any body at all, was there? I mean what I'm trying to say is that Sep couldn't have killed anyone because if he had there would have been a body. Make sense?"\
\
	19:rT1:a I shook my head and said, "You're wrong. I know what I saw."\
	19:rT1:b I nodded and said "You're right. There wasn't a body."	(effect: trust +1)\
	\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 19	
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 rT1
\f0\b0 \
	a: I shook my head and said, "You're wrong. I know what I saw."\
	   She still smiled, but it was strained.\
	   "But maybe it was an illusion, a hallucination? Adjusting to a new place can be stressful, and Uoma is so unlike anywhere else on earth-" \
	   She seemed at a loss for words, as if this alone should settle the matter.\
	   Everyone turned to the podium where a man, one of Sep's close helpers, was standing.\
	   "Everyone, Sep will be giving a special talk immediately following evening meal. Please assemble in the meditation hall immediately following evening meal. Thank you."\
\
	b: I nodded and said "You're right. There wasn't a body."\
	   "Right!" She gave a broad smile, relieved. "Sometimes things aren't quite how we expect them to be. They might be a little frightening but they are actually for the better. For the best."\
	   She looked off behind me, seemed to give a little nod.\
	   "Well I'm glad you came to Uoma! Sep said that you are going to be a valuable asset here."\
	   Everyone turned to the podium where a man, one of Sep's close helpers, was standing.\
	   "Everyone, Sep will be giving a special talk immediately following evening meal. Please assemble in the meditation hall immediately following evening meal. Thank you."\
	\
	20:rT1:a Alana left. I finished up eating and went to the meditation hall. (active if trust - courage > 0)\
	20:rT1: Alana left. I finished up eating and went back to my A-frame. (active if courage - trust > 0)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 20
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 rT1
\f0\b0 \
\
	a: During his talks Sep would don an indigo robe and sit in half-lotus atop a cushion on a low platform at the front of the meditation hall.\
	It always struck me as a little affected. \
	All of the members of Uoma would grab cushion on the floor before him.\
	It was all you could do to grab a spot, and those folks in the inner circles always seemed to secure a place up front before the rest of us had even stepped foot inside.\
	I got there late, so I had to sit way in the back, pressed up against the shoes and coats.\
	Sep set there for a long time, his head down, all his dark hair gathered over one shoulder. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Endings\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone rT1\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
a: I stood fast in front of the door to the shrine.\
	His hands came down as I brought my arm up to stop him.\
	Those hands gripped onto my arm like two metal vices, senseless, unforgiving.\
	When he touched me it was like he could see me for the first time. Those blank eyes landed on me and grew suddenly filled with intelligence, though not a human intelligence.\
	He brought his face close to me then said,\
	"Donas. Donas. Donas."\
	Everything around wavered and broke, the sun turned a reddish hue, the sky blackened.\
	Time grew very slow, and I found that I could see the world as it was, as it always had been.\
	The faces of those around me were pale and shining, clothes draped over their bodies strangely, with an intelligence that seemed strange.\
	There was a point far off, far off in the sky that grew close as it grew far away, I could not stop gazing up at it and it seemed to come to me as I came to it.\
	My body, my mind, my soul...\
	Donas.\
	\
	(effect: 'entropyAdvance', effect: 'pushIndex')\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Notes\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 Map of Uoma\ulnone \
\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone \
					  	   N\
						 Forest \
			 Forest		|Garden(N)|	 Forest    \
 			 Forest        |Garden(S)|   |STUDIO| Forest\
	Forest    A-frame(A)     \ul |  Sep's  |\ulnone     A-frame(Nar) Forest\ul \
\ulnone 	Forest	|Meditation|	|         |	|School|     A-frame(B) Plain\
W	PATH		  PATH		|  Shrine |	  PATH		PATH 	PATH		E\
	Forest	|Admin|		\ul |         |\ulnone 	| Dining  |  A-frame(C) Plain\
		  Forest A-frame(D) | Med     |   |Kitchen  |  A-frame(E) Forest\
		  Forest|Orchard(W)|Orchard(N)|Orchard(E)| Forest\ul \
				\ulnone Forest   |Orchard(S)| Forest\
					    |   Gate   |\
						   S\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
I listened. I believed him. \
\
The world does not always get better, but the world does become more true, the truth reveals itself to us.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Story Part Hash Example:
\f0\b0 \
\
[Part number (ex: "15")]\{\
	[Read through number (ex: "1")]:\{\
			[Choice ex: "a"]: \{ "text": "This would be the text for "Part 15, read through 1, choice a",\
							"location": "dining hall", (Possibly a location string to keep the reader oriented for exploration based parts)\
							"choices": [\
										\{text: "Text for choice A"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: a\}, \
										\{text: "Text for choice B"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: b\},\
										\{text: "Text for choice C"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: c\}\
									 ]\
			\},\
			[Choice ex: "b"]: \{ "text": "This would be the text for "Part 15, read through 1, choice b",\
							"location": "studio",\
							"choices": [\
										\{text: "Text for choice A"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: d\}, \
										\{text: "Text for choice B"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: e\},\
										\{text: "Text for choice C"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:1, choice: f\}\
									 ]\
			\},\
	[Read through number (ex: "2")]:\{\
			[Choice ex: "a"]: \{ "text": "This would be the text for "Part 15, read through 2, choice a",\
							"location": "studio",\
							"choices": [\
										\{text: "Text for choice A"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: a\}, \
										\{text: "Text for choice B"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: b\},\
										\{text: "Text for choice C"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: c\}\
									 ]\
			\},\
			[Choice ex: "b"]: \{ "text": "This would be the text for "Part 15, read through 2, choice b",\
							"location": "studio",\
							"choices": [\
										\{text: "Text for choice A"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: d\}, \
										\{text: "Text for choice B"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: e\},\
										\{text: "Text for choice C"\}, \{part: 16, readThrough:2, choice: f\}\
									 ]\
			\}\
		\}\
	\}\
\

\f1\b Game State Hash:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 	The ideal with the variables is that they are markers of the choices the character had made, and that these are reflections of how the character is: choose to act courageously and this will be reflected in the future. But this is a double edged sword: act without courage and your options will be limited to the cowardly option(s), act courageously at every chance and the Narrator will become gung-ho and choices will be limited to only the 'courageous' options. That is you can limit yourself by acting too rigidly. The same with insanity. As insanity grows not only will more options be available, but things that might normally be invisible will become visible, but if insanity grows too high then the reader will become insane. 'Trust' is the level of trust that Sep and the others in Uoma hold in the Narrator. By going along with what they saw you can build up their trust in the Narrator. It is up to the reader to decide whether these responses are truthful or a ruse.
\f1\b \

\f0\b0 \
\{\
 programmer:    true/false, (\'93programmer/sculptor\'94),\
 suffering:     true/false, (Part 10a: chooses Suffering or No)\
 channeling:    true/false, (Part 10b: chooses Channeling or No)\
 eternalReturn: true/false, (Part 10c: chooses Meeting or No) \
 prophecy:      true/false, (Part 10d: chooses 'Talk to god' or 'No')\
 stubborn:      true/false, (Part 14: choose to 'work' or 'wander')\
 insanity:	 0, (Parts 16)\
 courage:		 0, (Parts 10/11)\
 trust:         0, (Parts 13/18)\
\}\
\
localstorage: \
\{\
 \'93playThroughNumber\'94: 0 \
 \'93endingArray\'94: []\
\
\}\
\
Sep wanted a program that would contain the whole world. I asked him if it was going to be a game. He asked me if I thought that life was a game. We left it at that.\
\
I loved Sep more than anyone in the world. More than my parents, more than my children, more than God. \
\
Sep says that we have lived many lives, and I don\'92t think i have heard anything more true in my life. I have always felt this way, even since I was a child: that I had lived many lives, that the body I am in now, the experiences I have now are just one of thousands, one of millions, that the events of this life are dictated by chance, that I could have been born as anyone, as Marlene Dietrich, Joe Dimaggio, as Jimmy Carter, as you.\
\
I felt guilty: everyday the others were out in the world, working the orchards, cutting wood, sweating, breathing, getting injured. And here I was, sitting in a cool room just doing my work. I felt lazy, I felt useless. No one could eat or wear what I was making. I was just enacting (Sep\'92s).\
\
He said his first name was Darrell, his last name was Sepulveda.\
\
Add a loop?\
\
Idea: with each ending the narrator goes to the center of the shrine and sees something (an angel) moving up through the layers of the angels, at first a Cheruv, then a Tanakh, then a Seraph, then an Ophan.\
\
'It's all work. It's all just work. There is no end and there is no reward.'\
\
What are the through lines? What is the thrust? Loneliness, the dream destroyed, Sep's hubris, the cosmic horror of Donas, whatever it is, the moving image of the ambergris ikon (this is what you will create, the narrator opens a door and sees it, sees what they will make, what they must make) The sculpture as program and program as sculpture, the sculpture (which seems static) which is actually dynamic and the program (which seems dynamic) which is actually static, just a great object which turns around us and of which we see many facets. And how the world is both of these things, the world seems static and dynamic and this is because it is both sculpture and program, we are living inside a dynamic work of art, but one which is geared against us, one which is turned against us, the beauty of the thing is beyond our comprehension. How deep can we go into loneliness, how deep can we go into thought, even when there is something like bouyancy that keeps us from going deeper. And of course the questions remains, that when we see these things are we seeing something objective, or just a refleciton of our own selves? Do we discover or do we create? Is the narrator discovering or creating?\
\
Discovery and creation as one and the same. This is a hard idea to wrap one's mind around, ubt is it the truth? It would suggest an idealist universe, one where the mind has the capacity to create new things from nothing, and then present them to the subject as totally novel. What would it mean for The Narrator to create and discover the Ambergris ikon at once? Not only this but create the possibility, in a retroactive sense, of the ambergris ikon as they created it. Becuase this is what we are doing when we make art: we are both creating something for the first time, from scratch, but also discovering it, in the sense that the potential for the thing was always there, but it just had not been enacted yet. What is somewhat terrifying is that there are infinite permutations of these things out there, one story that is ten-thousand words long and varies by one word, these are two very different stories that occupy two different places in the mental space and this goes for an infinte number of stories. So when we create one story we often discover a handful of these potential stories, but then place a claim on just or or two of these stories as the true story and present these to the world as the creations.\
\
Of course in a more concrete sense the story is discovered in the sense that we often do not set out with a discrete goal in mind but have some distant possibility and then work toward that possibility but ultimately just end up somewhere totally different, a place we not only did not intend to go to, but a place we had not even thought existed in the first place. \
\
The feeling of being totally adrift, or at least feeling totally adrift. Could this feeling be reproduced in the user? Could this feeling be recreated? The thing is, a reader in that sort of text would almost certainly hate it. In fact it would only serve as a sort of proof of concept, that is: this feeling can be reproduced in the body of a novel. But it would be terribly boring even aversive. The reader would have to put the book away, almost certainly. \
\
Time is moving so slowly.\
\
I just came to Uoma because I had nowhere else to go. I didn't know what I would find there, but I didn't care. I knew that whatever was there was better than what I was coming from, that whoever and whatever I found there would be able to place some life back into me, would give me some direction. \
\
What I had learned as a sculptor was that there was always somewhere different to go. I learned that no sculpture was the only thing, the only one. That would could always make a piece and then go back and change it, or just make another one. That measure of repetition was the core of my work. The only way that I came to something beautiful was by making a piece over and over again, by taking the living core and redoing it until something worthwhile and beautiful came out. It's a shame that life is not like this, that you can rarely go back through life and remake it, that you can not fix your mistakes or start from scratch. Maybe this is why so few of us live beautiful lives: we only get one chance, we only get one play through. We cannot fix our mistakes or learn from them. So we are just a collection of mistakes, we are just the ugly path that we have found ourselves on, the pointless toss away that some greater sculptor has deemed not worth the material it is made from. Who knows why we persist, as prototypes. Who knows what motivates us onwards. Aside form the sticky details of ending it, of the sadness and sense of capitulation that comes along with just ending it. Only the distraction of each day and the hopes of some self-administered reward in the evening. The gope that someone else has placed on us. I don't know, I can't see it myself. The distraction are too great, the bending winds too strongly. \
\
There are so few of us whose lives are truly worth the effort, whose lives amount to anything at all. Whose lives administer any sort of beauty. The rest of us are just here to see to it that those others are able to achieve their ends, so that we may bask in their glory, so that we might steal a small piece of their beauty. And these people are generally the most torn, generally the most ripped apart. They have seen the gut of the world, they have seen the black pore and return to us with their broken minds and bodies and turn that utter black into something so glittering and fine. So fine.\
\
To look back on where I have been, how I have come this far, it all seems like a random walk, just the pointless travel here and there for no purpose or reason. Just distractions getting in the way of distractions and leading me up to this point which is a null point, which is an empty point. I thrive when it is dark and cool outside, I thrive in the place where there is no moisture. I thought I had come to the end but I must have been mistaken. And we are always acting. This much is clear. We are always placing some mask upon our faces. I can't imagine another way of being. \
\
I never saw any deer wandering in Uoma. I heard that they would be plentiful in a place like this, but I never saw them. I started to see Sep less and less as well.\
\
What is the goal? There is no goal? There is only the illusion of the goal. There is only the experience. There is only the journey. I want there to be the sadness. I want to convery the sadness of the place. Why i Uoma so sad? Because it was built with the best intentions, it was built with the wholeness of heart and a dream and that dream was found to be empty. It was found to be an illusion. It was found to be devoid of anything of value. It was found to be a mask that was ripped away at the last moment. It was the mask of Donas.\
\
I have witnessed greatness. I have seen its shadow pass by me like Moses witnessing god in the crevice of the rock on Sinai. It was full of emptiness. And I have found myself lacking. I have seen those whose art is an instinct within them, who create art in the same way the rest of use breath work walk. It falls out of them like seeds from a seed pod, flows from them like water from a cataract. And myself? Who am I to stand  in their way? Who am I to gum up their path? I, who can hardly breathe or speak or walk.\
\
I wonder every now and then whether my experience of the world is somehow less rich than that of others. I wonder if the world that I experience is somehow attenuated, that there is a blandness pulled over everything. It would explain a great number of things. \
\
What is in Uoma? Donas is in Uoma. What is Donas? Donas is the echo of echos. It is the last black pit at the end of the pit. It is the rain within the rain. It is the filling emptiness. Donas is the sign that is its own sign. Donas is the logic without logic and the language hidden within our own langauge. Donas is the waking sleep, the endless dreaming. Donas is the ash within the ash, the sightless room. Donas speak with silence, moves without moving. Donas brings the terrible joy, the joy of terror. Donas is the empty one, the shattered vessel, the boundless plain. \
\
I must keep myself on my work. That is critical. It takes so much focus to keep my mind on my work. I must work constantly to keep my mind on my work, work endlessly to work, push and push and push just to eke out the smallest drops, in order to gather even the most meager pieces of work. All I feel that I can do sleep and eat and lay, and I push myself to create this thing. And it never comes out how I want it. I imagein these is some creature between my mind and my hands and as the will moves its way down my spine this thing jumps in and jangles the signal all up so that when it come out it comes out all sideways. And so I have to go back and change it, but when I change it it still comes off unlike how I want, just all garbled up and pointless.\
\
If there is a formula to follow, I don't want to follow it. If there is some sequence of steps that can get from one place to another I cannot undertake it. There is something within me that revolts against it. \
\
I sit and I work and the work is just putting someting into the world, but not anything interesting or worthwhile. I sit down every day and this is what I accomplish. It is very possible. \
\
\
Narrator can either be:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Computer Programmer
\f0\b0 \
More information oriented, mind oriented.\
S/D asks narrator to make a computer program that \
- encompasses the whole world \
\pard\tx20\tx261\pardeftab720\li261\fi-262\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a computer program that recreates a whole person, thus giving them immortality.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a computer program that can talk to god \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \
Sculptor\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 More matter oriented, body oriented.\
-S/D asks narrator to make a sculpture, a representation of god\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Structure
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
	There are four 'iterations', tellings of the story where Sep/Donas and Uoma change slightly. Within each iteration there are multiple choices, perhaps multiple endings? Two or three endings per iteration, with the next iteration beginning only when the 'correct' choice is made? Or perhaps the next iteration always occurs, regardless of the ending, though there may be a secret or specific ending that only occurs if specific combinations are chosen? Or perhaps there are various endings.\
	The knee jerk reaction is to position the more 'bold' choices as presenting the more interesting or longer endings. But I want to make this so that the user fashions the Narrator's reality, the choices that the User/Narrator picks result in equally interesting paths, paths which are shaped by their attitudes, so that saying 'No' to Sep's question does not necessarily result in a worse or more boring outcome, but causes the narrator to experience different things. This could be accomplished with an insanity integer, with each choice of yes the insanity rises (+1 for a 'yes', +0 for a 'no') which will result in two endings for the first iterations, three endings for the second, etc. Alternately there could be two endings for each iteration based off of the local choice, and then two, three or four endings for the final iteration based off of the insanity, possibly combined with courage (or whatever\
\
\

\f1\b \ul Endings
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
There will be at least one measure that is tracked that will determine each ending. Ideally no ending will be reached more than once, though a full play through will reveal every ending(?). Possibly, the reader will have to repeat iterations until the correct ending is chosen, but used endings will prune each time? \
	First choice is Programmer/Sculptor. Perhaps this will change the flavor of each iteration, and change the ending(?)\
	Second choice occurs at Part 10, where Sep asks the narrator one of three questions and the narrator can either say that they agree, disagree or are not sure. What this is really showing is what the narrator believes, whether they are willing to go along with Sep's ideas, whether they tend to be mystical, grounded or ambivalent/apathetic/unsure. Perhaps the user's choice dictate the ending in that, how mystical they are determines how mystical the ending is, that is if they choose the 'mystical' choice then they see \
	\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Iteration Endings\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone a:\
b:\
c:\
d:\
\
Possible ending ideas:\
\pard\tx20\tx261\pardeftab720\li261\fi-262\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrator walks off and becomes \'91the walker\'92.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrator becomes fed up with the cult and goes back home.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrator is pulled into the program, their physical body dies and they live on in the system.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrator creates the Ambergris ikon but is killed(?) in the process.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28\fsmilli14400 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	-	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Narrator kills D/S ??\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Characters/Elements\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul The Narrator\ulnone \
Early-mid thirties. Has worked as a computer programmer for an unnamed company on some aspect of a missile computer. At some point in the recent past the Narrator left their job and became a sculptor. Recently they have undergone some sort of crisis and ended up on the streets of Portland and are found by DARRELL SEPULVEDA and are taken to UOMA. In my head the narrator is female, though this may not need be explicitly described it should be hinted at.\
\
\ul Darrell Sepulveda\ulnone \
The leader of Uoma. Late twenties/Early thrities, though his apparent age grows with each successive telling of the story. Confident, somewhat egotistical and secretive. He appears to be a benevolent leader to most, though his ultimate aims are obscure. Appears at various points as fashionable ('all black, leather jacket, black jeans, black hair worn long'), like a guru ('thin, his long black hair up in a bun, wearing an indigo robe') [perhaps the colors that Sep wears reflect to some degree the state of Uoma], work out ('tired, bags below his eyes, his face webbed with lines, not of age, but of stress, like someone in a war zone'). [Idea: At some point Sep is sick and on life support and the Narrator uses the computer to turn off the life support machine and kill Sep?]\
\
 Is Sep discovering or creating? Sep's motivation need to remain obscure, but the user must be able to imagine then, or imagine some abstraction of them. The user must be able to create them in their own minds, create some ineffable image of them. No, that's it, Sep's motivations are ineffable, they could never be written down or said, and yet some dim shadow of those motivations may and must exist in the story, in Sep's mind and in the user's mind. This is the true, invisible heart of the story, the mystery of the story: Sep's motivations. What does he want? What is he doing? I don't want him to just be some classic mad genius trope, or some mad cult leader trope. I want to see him as utterly inscrutable, as indicative of something larger, a Hannibal Lecter or Judge Holder type character. An ineffable force of nature that has somehow apparated onto earth and has set out to enact its goals in spite of any barriers. Perhaps he is a man, but there is something within him that is far beyond this, that is enacting goals far beyond the means of the flesh. Machen says that true sin in almost always done unconsciously, that the forces of ecstasy enact their goals through our flesh without us knowing it. And this is where Sep finds himself: he things he knows what he is doing, he thinks he is in control, but really this other thing is working through him, this other part \
\
\ul Uoma\ulnone \
A rural, spiritual commune situated in a valley outside of (fictional) Oaken Oregon. While on the surface the commune adheres to general spiritual practices (mediation, communal living, harmony) there are more esoteric and strange teachings that are only revealed to the Narrator as time goes on.\
\
\ul Klein\ulnone \
Possibly another programmer who works on the Uoma network(?) Need to get some code or piece of software from Klein in order to get into Uoma's system(?). Wary of the narrator, withdrawn and not forthcoming. He seems to fear or hate The Narrator.\
\
\ul The Ambergris Ikon\ulnone \
The sculpture that the narrator makes/is making. Sep provides the narrator with a lump of material that 'looked and smelled like a massive chunk of ambergris'. The Narrator finds it nearly impossible to work with and (perhaps) find that it changes itself, that the material seems to be alive. May take on various shapes, but its ultimate shape is that of 'a squat, vaguely humanoid figure whose blocky head is the size of its torso and which shows faces, thousands of various faces depending on which way one looks at it, as like a darkly faceted gem'\
\
\ul The Ash Burners\ulnone \
What sort of role do they play here? Could they invade Uoma at some point? Do they come in and everyone freaks out and chases them off somehow. All that can be said of them is that they are the cosmic outcasts, outcasts of the stars, they mostly stick to their dirty little hovels but something is making them wander, and they have wandered to earth. All that they know is how to burn things to ash, but not just things, thye burn everything: concepts, knowledge, structure, order. They just gather things and burn them. That is all that they know. What we see when we look at them is the only idea that we can place on them, they look like dirty ash burners, like dirt streaked, ash covered, dressed in sack cloth. Should we fear them or pity them? Are they mourners, are they evil, are the a part some something that we aren't really sure of, that we aren't really a part of, that we aren't really aware of. To put a lavel on them is to make a mistake, to try to categorize them is always to fail, to falter. They always seem to be looking directly into one's eyes, that is, no matter how many people are present an ash burner will appear to be looking into every person's eyes. They are able to speak but seem uncelar of the purpose of speech, are unclear as to who or what is able to understand speech. That is, they will speak to inanimate objects, animals, they sky, but may not speak to a person. On our planet they seem to get some rules but not others, they seem to understand some things, but not others. They are neither good not bad, ultimately they are destructive, or they appear that way to us. They are like the scavengers of the cosmos, they scavenge up dead and rotting things and burn them to ash. They are essentially mindless, not machines and not truly alive, but some of both, a bit of both. They appear vile to us, they elicit a disgust that cannot be traced to any one thing, it is their very being that causes us fear and hatred.\
	So what is it that brings tha ash burners to Uoma? That attracts them to Donas, to the ambergris ikon and so on? There is something in these things, perhaps their cosmic nature, that attracts them. Previously our planet held little of interest for them, they would just pass by us without thinking must, without seeing much. We are just a barren patch as far as they are concerned. But with the advent of Donas, and its manifestations in the ambergris ikon and the program, they found something that might interest them, that they might be able to consume. It is like bringing a piece of rotting meat into your house, though of course to the ash burners our planet is not so much a house as it is a feeble hut, they can just walk in and wander around. They have the scent and can just wander around.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Donas
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
	Placing Donas is even more difficult than placing the ash burners: while the ash burners have a definite form Donas seems to break down the rules that we have about the world: it can be both alive and dead, it can be in many places at once, hold multiple forms at once. Donas is a dead god, though calling Donas a god is not accurate. The closest thing that would encompass Donas would be a demi-urge, another one of these things that wanders the cosmos. Donas is a dead god, a corpse that can make choices, a corpose that can think and feel and move. How Darrell Sepulveda first came to think of Donas, understand its presence or proximity to earth (if this is even accurate) is unclear. Whether Sepulveda even fully understands what Donas is, and that he is luring Donas to earth is unlikely. In all likelihood Sepulveda is doing all this intuitively, or unconsciously.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Map of Uoma\ulnone \
\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone \
					  	   N\
						 Forest \
			 Forest		|Garden(N)|	 Forest    \
 			 Forest        |Garden(S)|   |STUDIO| Forest\
	Forest    A-frame(A)     \ul |  Sep's  |\ulnone     A-frame(Nar) Forest\ul \
\ulnone 	Forest	|Meditation|	|         |	|School|     A-frame(B) Forest\
W	PATH		  PATH		|  Shrine |	  PATH		PATH 	PATH		E\
	Forest	|Admin|		\ul |         |\ulnone 	| Dining  |     A-frame(C) Forest\
		  Forest A-frame(D) | Med  |   |Kitchen  |  A-frame(E) Forest\
		  Forest|Orchard(W)|Orchard(N)|Orchard(E)| Forest\ul \
				\ulnone Forest    |Orchard(S)| Forest\
						 Forest\
						   S\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul School\ulnone \
A school for the kids. Multi-level, institutional painted cinderblocks with wire mesh windows.\
\
\ul Studio/Computer room\ulnone \
The building the narrator is given to use for their work. A single room on the NE side of Uoma.\
\ul \
Dining hall\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone Where they gather to eat.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Meditation hall\ulnone \
A large meditation hall where they gather before breakfast and after dinner to meditate and hear sermons given by Sep. Always open.\
\ul \
Orchard\ulnone \
A cherry orchard.\
\
\ul Garden\ulnone \
A large gerden where much of the food for Uoma is grown.\
\
\ul Forest\ulnone \
Uoma is surrounded by thick pine forest. On the N and S sides this rises in a steep, unpassable hill.\
\
\ul Path\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone A path that goes roughly east-west through Uoma. Where is leads is not discussed, though it resembles closely the path taken by The Walker and ultimately the Narrator (may/must) take the path out of Uoma.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Shrine\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone The Shrine is a structure at the center of Uoma made of black stone. When first encountered the meaning and function the shrine is kept a secret by Sep and the members of Uoma, though some sort of rituals or events occur there which are known to only Sep and a few other members of the group. As Uoma shrinks the shrine grows in size and becomes more ornate.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Challenges\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone The heart of the story is its retelling and the ways (subtle and overt) that the setting of Uoma, the attitude of the narrator, Sep, the shrine and the sculpture/program change. Thus each telling will have to be long enough to establish the ideas and setting while keeping the reader engaged and interested in replaying multiple times.\
\
Establishing the believability of density of Uoma with minimal interactions. I want to limit the amount of required wandering, while still allowing plenty of space for the interested user to wander around, check things out, get a sense of the settlement et c.\
\
Reducing boring aspects.\
\
Keeping things believable while upping the weirdness little by little, allowing elements that may seem strange or supernatural to sneak in without being campy or cheesy or breaking the narrative or believability.\
\
Holding enough NPCs so that Uoma seems populous without having long exchanges of dialogue or needless repetition.\
\
Allowing enough choice to engage the reader while always moving the story forward. There should not be any failure states, that is, no point where the reader has to stop or end the story and replay because they have failed. Each telling will move the story forward and change the future tellings. Ideally, accomplishing each ending will then remove it from the possibility of future use by pruning traveled paths from the choices. Perhaps there will be one or two extra endings that can only be accomplished by certain choices, but for the most part the users choices will never cause them to 'lose'.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul Ideas\
\
	\ulnone -A scene (in rT2 or rT3) where the narrator is offered some substance which they can take or not. If they take it they trip out and it increases insanity, otherwise they just go to bed or whatever. Sees Donas? Has some vision? Can even go into the shrine \
	-In rT 3 or 4 the ash burner arrives and there is no one else to help keep it out of the way, and Sep is too frail to do it, so the narrator has to take it on themselves, or has no choise but to appraoch the ash-burner.\
	-Wondering if insanity should carry over between rT's. Or perhaps it just becomes 'easier' to accrue insanity with each rT. In the first rT you may not have enough insanity to see what is in the shrine, only a sense of unease and desire to leave. Or perhaps there is a room within the shrine that can only be accessed when insiety is high enough. If the reader gets to this pointand their insity is too low then they just turn around, disillusioned, and leave Uoma. \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ulnone 	Though I don't want this to fall to much into the category of a traditional video game, the door to the shrine may be locked either with some mechanical or electronic device and the narrator can only enter the shrine using the tools provided by that specific profession (i.e. as the sculptor they may only break in with mechanical tools, or hack the electronic lock as the computer programmer.) Perhaps on the first play through the lock is always the opposite of the chosen profession, meaning that the narrator must end the game (via leaving or, perhaps, via suicide) and come back as the opposite profession. \
\
	The Walker: The Walker is a story (possible parable/allegory for life) that Sep describes in his talks with Uoma. The Walker walks alone along a path finding various things. Comes to the hut of an Ash-Burner, comes to a great reflecting body of water and looks at their reflection. ("Last night I had another dream with the walker..." Sep said. Everyone in the hall seemed excited at this.) \
\
	The Ash-Burner(s): Cosmic outcasts. Grubby. Always searching for things, always burning things of value down to ash which they value highly. Neither good nor bad. Representing nothing, representing decay and dissolution. Make an appearance at Uoma: at one point prior to learning about them an Ash-Burner arrives at Uoma and everyone gets up at arms. They speak strangely.\
\
	The Path: A dirt path the runs through Uoma that looks very old. No one takes the path and where it leads is unclear. The narrator may be given the chance to take the path at some point, perhaps at the penultimate ending. \
\
	Donas: Revealed at some mid-point as the name of the sculpture and/or the program. In the penultimate ending Sep(in his most run-down, old presenation) is called Donas.\
\
	The narrator begins to suspect that they are no longer guiding the work, how it feels as if something else is working through them, how \
\
"All I have now is my work. I sleep every night before (my plinth/my monitor). My A-frame is still out there, but what is the point of leaving? I awaken in the middle of the night and work for hours. I have no need for sleep and have covered over the windows with sheets of canvas to keep the light out. They knock and deliver food to the front door but there is no point in eating or drinking, it will just keep me from the work. If I waste away then so much the better, the less I am the greater the work becomes."\
\
"All I have now is my work. I have become one with my work. It no longer ends when I step away from (the plinth/the terminal) but continues with every step, with every breath, with ever heartbeat."\
\
	A meditation on work, what work means, how it feels like we are never moving, how we are caught in an absurd cycle doing something meanless to others, something which at times seems even meaningless to ourselves. How in the depth of work the boundaries between art and technology and religion blur then evaporate. How the deeper we get into our work the more we lose focus of the rest of the world, how absurd it all seems, how the needs of our bodies of society of others pale in comparison to what we are doing. How we always feel inadiquate, how the idea never reaches reality, is faded and distorted and rent apart by our skill or lack of skill, our fumbling. How our work is a wandering, how we can end up down dead ends or (what appear to be, or may be in reality) endless cycles, how what seems great to one seems feeble to others, how at a certain point the task at once takes on the enormity of the whole universe and appears utterly pointless. How everything in the world, even ourselves seem like a distraction from the work, this little niggling flies that bite at us and pull us away and how it becomes impossible to tell whether these things are good or bad, constructive or destructive. How in the depths of work all lines blur, how every actions every distraction is at once creative and destructive, form and formless, poignant and pointless. How at a point in our work no one else can understand what we are doing and how we lose track of what we are doing, how it becomes impossible to tell whether we are making the work or something else is making the work through us.\
\
The narrator and Sep are sacrificed for the work.\
\
	What are the choices? Especially in the first conversation between the narrator and Sep. Should Sep agree, disagree or remain neutral to the question? Or is it that the choice that the narrator makes shapes the narrative, and shapes Sep's own opinion?\
\
	There could come a point where the narrator has a goal, whether it is to get to the shrine or kill Sep or something else and they know it, but they are basically given free rein to wander around Uoma, and explore. There could be some hidden endings here, but really the emphasis is just on exploring this zone, this world that has been oertaken by whatever it is that Sep is calling down to the world.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Old\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 11a\
\
	
\f0\b0 \ulnone Though I was lying, I said 'Yes.'\
	Sep frowned. "There is nothing that I want less than for someone to tell me what I want to hear. Always be truthful with me, always tell me what comes straight from your heart."\
(Decreases Sep's trust in the person for this playthrough.)\

\f1\b \ul \
\
11b\
\
 	
\f0\b0 \ulnone I thought this was a strange question. I said 'No,'.\
	Sep smiled, "We have created an environment here unlike anywhere else on earth. Dreams can seem like memories and our memories seem like dreams. Many have told me that they have that feeling is quite frequent here. If you start to feel as if you have been here before don't let it bother you, it will pass shortly and the world will seem right again in no time."\
\
(Increases Sep's trust in the person for this playthrough.)
\f1\b \ul \
\
11c\
\
	
\f0\b0 \ulnone Though I thought this was a strange question. I said 'Yes'.\
	Sep nodded. "It is a feeling I have as well though I cannot say from where it comes. Don't let it bother you too much." \
	\
(Increases Sep's trust in the person for this playthrough.)
\f1\b \ul \
\
11d\
\
 	
\f0\b0 \ulnone Though I was lying, I said 'No.'\
	Sep frowned. "It is just me then. Strange. Others have told me they have this feeling from time to time, and yet I've never felt it myself." 
\f1\b \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
(Increases Sep's madness.)\
\
\
(Sep/Donas) would present me with questions, as if I were the master. Though he never asked for answers, I considered them fully. 11a\
\
(Sep/Donas) would answer questions, questions that I had always wondered, but never thought to ask. 11b\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 11 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
(Sep/Donas) would ask me questions, as if I were the master. One night he asked me whether I thought that what we did in the present could change the past, whether events that had already occurred could be altered after the fact by our decisions and actions.\
\
13 I told him I had always thought that our actions had power. That how we acted would change the future, and could change the past.\
\
14 I told him I had always thought that our mind had power. That what we thought now would change the future, and could change the past.\
\
12 (Sep/Donas) would answer questions, questions that I had always wondered in my heart, but never thought to ask. Once Donas told me that there were logics within logic, languages within every language\{, a program within every program\}. That the whole universe was just a set of rules and that what we were doing at Uoma was digging to uncover these hidden system.\
\
15 I asked (Sep/Donas) to tell me about those logics within logic. \
\
16 I asked (Sep/Donas) to tell me about those languages within language.\
\
\{17 I asked (Sep/Donas) to tell me about the programs within the program.\}\
\
13 I told him I had always thought that our actions had power. That how we acted now would change the future, and the past. I had seen it myself. \
\
14 I told him I had always thought that our mind had power. That what we thought now would change the future, and the past.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 9 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
He explained a few things to me then.\
He explained how the world as we saw it was not the real world. That there was another world beneath it, in the way that your true face can be covered by a mask. He said the mask of this world was frightening, evil, horrific, but that beneath the mask was a beautiful shining face, a face we were trying to uncover. \
\
10 The face of god.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 10 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
The face of god.\
He explained that all of our work at Uoma, all of Uoma itself was in the service of this mission and that we were going to reveal this face to the world one day.\
\
11 I asked him then how long it would take until we could accomplish our goal.\
\
12 I asked him then whose face it was hiding beneath that mask, who we would see under there.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul 11
\f0\b0 \ulnone  \
\
I asked him then how long it would take until we could accomplish our goal.\
(Sep/Donas) said it might come in a thousand years or it might come tomorrow, but that no matter how long it would take, all of us would live to see that. (Sep/Donas) told me then that we lived many lives, and that we might live a life over and over again until we lived it correctly. He said that I may have lived this life a thousand times before, but now, coming to Uoma, I had taken a step in the right direction.\
\
13 I was overwhelmed them by a feeling of utter joy and beauty, and began to weep.\
\

\f1\b \ul 12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \ulnone \
I asked him then whose face it was hiding beneath that mask, who we would see under there.\
(Sep/Donas) told me then that the world we lived in was like a great house and that we lived like rats beneath the floorboards of that house. He told me then too that we hid out from the Masters of the House, that only by virtue of our very smallness were we able to survive. He said that the mask hid the Masters of the House, and that when we removed that mask we would see their true faces.\
\
13 I was overwhelmed them by a feeling of how small we all were, and began to weep.\
\
	13a:	I asked Sep what he had in mind.\
	He said he wanted to make a sculpture of Uoma.\
	I asked him in what sense.\
	He said he wanted to make a copy of every building, every tree and plant and rock and piece of dirt.\
	I said I thought it was possible.\
	Then he said he wanted to make a sculpture of every person that lives there, a perfect replica of Uoma.\
	I said I figured it would be a lot of work, it would take me years, but it would probably be possible.\
	I asked him what scale he wanted it in.\
	He put his head back, smiled, his gazed off somewhere far away.\
	"True to life. He said. So that one might walk through it themselves."\
	I laughed.\
	"I can work up to it, I said."\
	Then he looked at me.\
\
13a/b(sculptor) \
	I asked Sep what he had in mind.\
	He said that there was a work - a sculpture - that he had been thinking of far a long time. \
	He had been compiling notes and sketches for years, but was not skilled enough to put it into form. Sep though I might be able to accomplish this. \
	I told Sep that I usually worked from my own imagination, but if he wanted to provide me with an idea, I could try my hardest to create the piece.\
	Sep smiled. He went to a drawer and pulled out a manila folder packed with papers. \
	He opened the folder to reveal hundreds of sketches in pencil, charcoal and gouache.\
	I didn't understand what I was looking at for a few seconds, then I came to see that they were all of the same squat, vaguely humanoid figure, thought from various angles, distances and level of detail.\
	It had a blocky, head - featureless - that was nearly the same size as its body. In most of the drawings the figure was low to the ground squatting on stocky legs, its blocky arms held beside it. \
	Many of the pages had notes in an elegant, cursive hand in a language I did not recognize, other sheets were marked with intricate, nested polygons not to mark the proportions of the figure but outside it.\
	I asked Sep what it was.\
	"Just a figure I have had in mind for many years. I call it 'Donas'"\
\
	14 It was a strange figure, and a strange name, but I told Sep that I figured I could do it. \
\
13a/b(programmer) I asked Sep what he had in mind.\
	He said that he wanted to create a program that would keep track of all of Uoma: every person at the compound, what job they were doing, how efficient every person was all of the supplies, the weather, the content of the soil. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \ul Logos
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
Standard:\
\
_   _ ________  ___  ___\
| | | |  _  |  \\\\/  | / _ \\\\\
| | | | | | | .  . |/ /_\\\\ \\\\\
| | | | | | | |\\\\/| ||  _  |\
| |_| \\\\ \\\\_/ / |  | || | | |\
 \\\\___/ \\\\___/\\\\_|  |_/\\\\_| |_/\
\
Glitch1:\
\
_   _ ________  ___  ___\
| | | |  _  |  \\\\/  | / _ \\\\\
| | | \\\\ | | | .  . |/ /_\\\\ \\\\\
| | | | | | | |\\\\/| ||  _  |\
| |_| \\\\ \\\\_/ / |  | || | | |\
 \\\\___/ \\\\___/\\\\_|  |_/\\\\_| |_/\
\
Glitch2: \
\
_   _ ________  ___  ___\
| | | |  _  |  \\\\/  | / _ \\\\\
       | | | | | | | .  . |/ /_\\\\ \\\\\
  | | | | | | | |\\\\/| ||  _  |\
| |_| \\\\ \\\\_/ / |  | || | | |\
 \\\\___/ \\\\___/\\\\_|  |_/\\\\_| |_/\
\
}